Linux FS Hierarchy
Root Directory
/bin
/sbin
/etc configuration files
/home
/root
/usr unix system resources non essential command binaries libraries documentation
/var contains files whose content is expected to change frequently or grow as log files mail queues and web server files
/tmp temporary files from the system and users, contents are usually deleted upon reboot
/dev special files that represent physical hardware devices
/proc
/sys vfs to view and configure system hardware
/opt  large self contained third party software
/mnt mounting storage devices like usb drives or network shares
/media automatically mounting removable media like cd-ROMs or digital cameras

cat is a prgram defined in bin folder, when executing cat on power_suply file, the file will call a wrapper of open and read call a syscall which asks the battery returns an integer
and returns it to stdout 
Maybe cat is a specific constant command like a wrapper of open and read and fsys infrastructure recognizes it as a specific kernel function which talks to the hardware or reads 
an internal kernel variable to get the current capacity percentage. 
Battery Chip -> Kernel Buffer -> Cat Program(read syscall fd3) -> Stdout(write syscall fd3) -> Terminal (stdout fd1)

Syscalls are the low level functions the kernel provides to interact with the system and core utilities are user-space programs built on top of these syscalls. 





The linux kernel build system is one of the most sophisticated uses of make. You use a decentralized system where: the top level Makefile manages the overall build configuration and targets. kbuild is a complex set of scripts and Makefiles that handle
the details of building modules traversing directories and linking. 
e entry all: app in a Makefile is a rule that defines the default goal when you run the make command without any arguments.
n this context, all: app simply means: "To build everything, just build the program named app."
Default Action: It ensures that running a simple make command builds your final executable (app).

Phony Target: all is typically declared as a phony target using the .PHONY directive (e.g., .PHONY: all). This tells make that all is not an actual file to be created. This is important because if a file named all accidentally existed in the directory, make might incorrectly decide that the target is already up-to-date and skip the build.

A typical program might have tens or hundreds of files: main.c, networking.c, display.c, utils.c, etc.

The gcc compiler must be run on each of these files to create an object file (.o) first, and then all the object files must be linked together 
to form the final executable.

You'd need a long series of commands:

gcc -c main.c -o main.o
gcc -c networking.c -o networking.o
gcc -c display.c -o display.o
gcc main.o networking.o display.o -o app
... and so on for potentially hundreds of files.

Makefile Approach (Structured):
The Makefile organizes this process into clear, 
manageable rules, defining dependencies automatically. This is much easier to manage and understand for large codebases.
ake looks at the timestamps of the files:

Rule: networking.o depends on networking.c.

Action: If networking.c has been modified more recently than networking.o, make recompiles only networking.o.

If networking.c has not changed, make skips the compilation and uses the existing networking.o file.

For real projects, you often need to define specific settings for the compiler:

Compiler Flags: Optimizations (-O2), warnings (-Wall), standard definitions (-std=c99).

External Libraries: Linking in external code (like math functions using -lm) or specific library paths (-L/usr/lib/mylib).

Architecture/Kernel Configuration: In the Linux kernel, the Makefile handles the complex logic of compiling different code for different hardware architectures (ARM, x86) based on the user's .config file.

The Makefile centralizes these complex compiler options into variables (like CFLAGS or LDFLAGS), keeping the actual compilation commands clean and readable.



The -O flag instructs the compiler to apply various optimization algorithms to the source code.

The level 2 (-O2) is a common choice because it enables most optimizations that don't significantly increase compilation time or code size, providing a good balance between speed and build time.

How it works: The compiler might rearrange instructions, eliminate redundant code, calculate constants at compile time (instead of run time), and perform complex loop transformations to produce more efficient machine code.





Why? To catch potential bugs, logical errors, or suspicious constructs that might not be fatal errors but are highly problematic.
Wall stands for "All Warnings". It is a crucial flag for quality assurance.
It tells the compiler to report virtually every warning that is generally considered helpful.
Examples of warnings it catches:
Using an uninitialized variable.
Forgetting a return statement in a non-void function.
Mismatched format specifiers in printf or scanf.
Using the result of an assignment as a conditional (e.g., if (x = 1) instead of if (x == 1)).
Best Practice: In professional and kernel development, warnings are often treated as errors, forcing developers to fix the underlying issue before the code is accepted.






Boot Code (head.S)-D__ASSEMBLY__Assembly files (.S) cannot be processed by the regular C compiler. This flag defines an assembly-specific macro and often uses a special compiler stage before the assembler runs.x86 vs. ARM-m32 or -m64To ensure the code generates a 32-bit or 64-bit binary, which affects instruction sets, register usage, and memory addressing.Optimizations-Os (Optimize for Size)Core boot code or embedded system code often needs to be as small as possible to fit in limited memory or boot sectors, overriding the kernel's default -O2 or -O3.









Stack smashing protocols" (or more commonly, Stack Smashing Protection (SSP)) refer to compiler and operating system security features designed to detect and prevent a class of attacks called stack buffer overflows, or "stack smashing."

A successful stack smashing attack allows a malicious user to overwrite critical data on a program's call stack, specifically the return address, to redirect the program's execution flow to their own injected code.

The primary method used for SSP is the Stack Canary





A stack canary is a random, secret value placed on the stack between a local buffer (the vulnerable variable) and the function saved control data, like the return address.
Function Entry (Prologue): When a function starts, the compiler inserts code to push a random "canary" value onto the stack.
During Execution: Local variables, including buffers, are allocated after the canary.
Buffer Overflow: If an attacker attempts to overflow a local buffer to overwrite the return address, they must overwrite the canary first.
Function Exit (Epilogue): Before the function executes the instruction to return (which uses the saved return address), the compiler inserts code to check the canary's value.
If the canary is intact, the function returns normally.
If the canary has been changed (smashed), the program detects the overflow, prints an error message (like *** stack smashing detected ***), and immediately terminates the process to prevent the attacker's code from running.
The term "canary" comes from the historical use of canaries in coal mines—if the canary died, it signaled danger before the miners were affected.


In C development, you enable SSP using specific compiler flags, such as those provided by GCC:Compiler FlagScope of Protection-fstack-protectorProtects only functions that contain buffers larger than 8 bytes or use dynamic memory allocation (alloca).-fstack-protector-strongIncludes protection for functions with local arrays or references to the local frame address. This is often the default setting for a good balance of security and performance.-fstack-protector-allInstruments every function with a canary, providing the highest security but with the largest potential performance hit.
